---
layout: post
title: "Blog 0"
---

Throughout this second semester of Senior Design, I will cover topics in regards to operating systems to help prepare myself for a written exam for a Systems Analyst position and/or any potential interviews I will have in the future. All of the topics covered will be general concepts.

MEMORY ADDRESSES
-----------------

When programs execute, they must in part, execute in main memory. Hardware plays a huge part in this. There are 3 different types of memory addresses:

1. Symbolic Addresses - Used in source code; The variable names, constants, and instruction labels are the basic elements of the symbolic address
space.  

2. Relative Addresses - At the time of compilation, a compiler converts symbolic addresses into relative addresses.

3. Physical Addresses - The loader generates these addresses at the time when a program is loaded into main memory.


An address generated by the CPU is commonly referred to as a logical address (virtual address), whereas an address seen by the memory unit, that is, the one loaded into the memory-address register of the memory, is commonly referred to as a physical address. The run-time mapping from virtual to physical addresses is done by a hardware device called the memory-management unit (MMU).MMU uses following mechanism to convert virtual address to physical address:

- The value in the base register is added to every address generated by a user process, which is "offset" at the time it is sent to memory. For example, if the base register value is 10000, then an attempt by the user to use address location 100 will be dynamically reallocated to location 10100.

- The user program deals with virtual addresses; it never sees the real physical addresses.
